---
title: Technology on a Roll
author: Laila Albalkhi
author_title: Merchandising Coordinator, CSS
author_image_url: https://uwindsorcss.github.io/files/dir/newsletter/img/laila-albalkhi.png
---

_Note added by Jeremie: This article was originally written for a print version of the CSS newsletter where the formatting and line breaking of the text was much easier to force. To fully appreciate this article, you need to know where each line would break in the print version. As such, I've bolded each word that would have started a new line in the print version. I'll leave it as an exercise to you to figure out why I've done this._

**Never** has the field of technology reached these heights. The advances we see day to day are absolutely  
**going** to change the world as we know it. Artificial intelligence and machine learning have allowed us  
**to** discover things that we previously thought were impossible. Now what’s this article about? If you’ll  
**give** me a chance, I’d like to talk about the drastic, incredible, and absolutely amazing advances that  
**you** may or may not have heard about. Some of these things may surprise or astound you, but it’s only  
**up** to you to decide what you’ll do with this information. But I can promise that your perspective will  
**never** be the same.

**Going** back to the beginning of the tech revolution, we can begin seeing a trend in tech starting  
**to** change our day to day lives. Technology helps you with many things to make your life easier. Phones  
**let** you communicate with people instantaneously, allowing you to connect with loved ones overseas!  
**You** can even check your e-mail, do your schoolwork, and check the weather, all before the sun goes  
**down**! Nowadays, virtual assistants like Alexa help with daily tasks. Engineers at the start of the century  
**never** would have thought talking to robots like Google Home would be possible! Ethical questions are  
**going** to arise from time to time, but the introduction of virtual assistants have helped greatly! In order  
**to** really understand how technology has progressed, think about how long it used to take computers to  
**run** and how quickly they can run now. The introduction of quantum computing introduces speeds of  
**around** 100 million times faster than any classical computer. Think of all the possibilities this will bring  
**and** the improvements to come! What does this mean about the old technologies? Should we just  
**desert** our old ways of thinking? What does this mean about what the future has to hold? Who knows,  
**you** might even have the chance to contribute to this new era!
